README.md, before:

# Financial House Homework Sample Project


## Developer Log

*In this section, I will log the thought process behind the architectural decisions I've made during the development of this repository.*

- I have started a fresh Laravel 10 project.
- I will be using Laravel Breeze for authentication scaffolding for it satisfies auth requirements of this project out of the box.
- I used tailwind for CSS applications.
- Normally I would use React for an interface of this type, but since this won't go beyond basic item listing and filtering, I opted to use vanilla JavaScript instead. This will also help keep things simple, save time both writing and reviewing.
- I prefer to organize 3rd party API connections in two layers as demonstrated in this project;
  - 1st layer would be a HTTP client dedicated to the 3rd party API in question. This would abstract all the API-specific routines.
  - 2nd layer would be a Service/Repository. This layer would implement the business logic and serves a high level interface for the rest of the program.
- Since Reporting API is an API for generating reports, freshness of the responses are not of paramount. Hence. I have cached data returned from this API briefly. This has several benefits;
  - Debounce API calls.
  - Help users stay under the API rate limits if there are any.
  - Improve UX by serving cached responses where available.
  - Reduce network traffic between server and the 3rd party API.
- Homework document suggest adding "Unit Tests", however I have assumed it was meant to say "Automated Tests". Those terms are used ambiguously in the sector.
  - I think the best suited test type for this kind of application is Feature Tests.
  - Unit Tests could come in handy more in mathematically heavy methods or methods which handle complex business logic.
  - Another automated test type which would be suitable for this application is Browser Testing with Laravel Dusk. But I think that falls out of the scope of this demo.



## TO DO
*I will keep a TO DO list in this section. However, I might not complete most of them for I think polishing a demo project too much won't be necessary. Take this as a list of things that I would have implemented in a commercial project.*

- Dashboard
  - [ ] Keep filters after refreshing the page. (Could use browser local storage to store and retrieve the filters.)
  - [ ] Add pagination support for the transaction list.
  - [X] Add more columns/data points to the table.
  - [ ] Send filter options from the server and dynamically create the filters.
  - [ ] Refactor to use ENUMS for filter options.
  - [ ] Use Data Transfer Objects for Reporting API responses.
  - [ ] Use Data Transfer Objects and method parameter type declarations for `ReportingApiRepository` and `ReportingApiClient` methods.
  - [ ] Handle error cases while listing transactions.
  - [X] Handle zero length results while listing transactions.
  - [ ] Move inline JavaScript to an external file. Manage client side dependencies with a dependency manager.

Commit message:

Added Deployed Version Notes to Readme

README.md, after:

# Financial House Homework Sample Project


## Deployed Demo

A live demo of this project is deployed to [https://financial-house.umurkaragoz.com](https://financial-house.umurkaragoz.com).

You can go to the link and create a new account to access to the dashboard.

Project is deployed to a DigitalOcean droplet VPS.
Droplet is running Ubuntu with Apache server.
I have manually configured the website config files and relevant apache settings.
I have used PhpStorm's Remote Host synchronization feature to keep the files on the server up to date throughout the development process.

Heroku or similar platforms could have been great alternatives for deployment. But I have opted for a VPS server for simplicity’s sake.
I have already had a VPS configured and running, therefore preferred to utilize that instead.  

## Developer Log

*In this section, I will log the thought process behind the architectural decisions I've made during the development of this repository.*

- I have started a fresh Laravel 10 project.
- I will be using Laravel Breeze for authentication scaffolding for it satisfies auth requirements of this project out of the box.
- I used tailwind for CSS applications.
- Normally I would use React for an interface of this type, but since this won't go beyond basic item listing and filtering, I opted to use vanilla JavaScript instead. This will also help keep things simple, save time both writing and reviewing.
- I prefer to organize 3rd party API connections in two layers as demonstrated in this project;
  - 1st layer would be a HTTP client dedicated to the 3rd party API in question. This would abstract all the API-specific routines.
  - 2nd layer would be a Service/Repository. This layer would implement the business logic and serves a high level interface for the rest of the program.
- Since Reporting API is an API for generating reports, freshness of the responses are not of paramount. Hence. I have cached data returned from this API briefly. This has several benefits;
  - Debounce API calls.
  - Help users stay under the API rate limits if there are any.
  - Improve UX by serving cached responses where available.
  - Reduce network traffic between server and the 3rd party API.
- Homework document suggest adding "Unit Tests", however I have assumed it was meant to say "Automated Tests". Those terms are used ambiguously in the sector.
  - I think the best suited test type for this kind of application is Feature Tests.
  - Unit Tests could come in handy more in mathematically heavy methods or methods which handle complex business logic.
  - Another automated test type which would be suitable for this application is Browser Testing with Laravel Dusk. But I think that falls out of the scope of this demo.



## TO DO
*I will keep a TO DO list in this section. However, I might not complete most of them for I think polishing a demo project too much won't be necessary. Take this as a list of things that I would have implemented in a commercial project.*

- Dashboard
  - [ ] Keep filters after refreshing the page. (Could use browser local storage to store and retrieve the filters.)
  - [ ] Add pagination support for the transaction list.
  - [X] Add more columns/data points to the table.
  - [ ] Send filter options from the server and dynamically create the filters.
  - [ ] Refactor to use ENUMS for filter options.
  - [ ] Use Data Transfer Objects for Reporting API responses.
  - [ ] Use Data Transfer Objects and method parameter type declarations for `ReportingApiRepository` and `ReportingApiClient` methods.
  - [ ] Handle error cases while listing transactions.
  - [X] Handle zero length results while listing transactions.
  - [ ] Move inline JavaScript to an external file. Manage client side dependencies with a dependency manager.
